Chapter 17... The Sommelier.

[exhales]
To understand the Sommelier... you must first understand the TASTEVIN. 
It is a shallow silver cup... dimpled like a golf ball... worn on a heavy chain around the neck. 
It is not jewelry; it is a tool of the dungeon. 
In the days before electric light... the cellar master would use a candle to check the color of the wine. 
The Sommelier pays attention to the REFLECTION. 
He is looking for "brightness." 
A dull wine is a dead wine.

[whispers]
The Sommelier pays attention to the GRID. 
Sight... Nose... Palate. 
He does not "drink" wine; he dissects it. 
He swirls the glass to release the volatile esters. 
He sniffs. 
He sips... sucking in air to aerate the liquid in his mouth. 
He spits. 
He can tell you the grape... the region... the vintage... and sometimes the specific hillside the grapes grew on.

The Sommelier exists in the realm of TERROIR. 
This is the untranslatable French concept that wine tastes like "somewhere." 
It is the sum of the soil... the climate... the slope... and the soul of the winemaker. 
The Sommelier is a geologist. 
He talks about "Kimmeridgian limestone" and "Galets roulés." 
He believes he can taste the stones. 
He lives in a world of pure aroma.

[sighs]
But the Sommelier is a gatekeeper. 
The "Decay" is the app. 
The customer no longer needs the priest; they have the data. 
The tension is between the Natural and the Technical. 
The "Natural Wine" movement rejects the technical perfection of modern winemaking. 
It is a civil war of aesthetics.

[whispers]
The Sommelier stands in the cellar. 
It is 55 degrees Fahrenheit. 
He pays attention to the CORK. 
To be a Sommelier is to be Waiting. 
You are the custodian of time. 
He picks up a bottle of 1945 Mouton Rothschild. 
He holds the bottle to the light. 
He sees the sediment... the dregs of history settling at the bottom. 
He knows that inside that glass cylinder is a living thing... slowly breathing... slowly dying. 
He puts it back on the rack. 
He turns off the light. 
He leaves the wine to sleep in the dark.
