Chapter 3... The Aghori Sect.

[exhales]
The KAPALA is a human skull... severed at the brow... turned upside down to form a cup. 
To the uninitiated... it is an object of supreme horror... a desecration of the dead. 
To the Aghori... it is the only honest bowl in the world. 
He eats from it. 
He drinks from it. 
He begs with it.

[whispers]
He pays attention to the BONE. 
He knows that this calcium shell once held a universe of thoughts... fears... and loves... and now it holds his lentil soup. 
The KAPALA is a somatic intervention that forces the user to kiss death every time he nourishes life. 
It is the ultimate rejection of the "Yuck Factor."

The Aghori pays attention to the POLLUTION. 
In the orthodox Hindu caste system... purity is the currency. 
You stay away from the lower castes... from the dead... from bodily fluids. 
The Aghori runs TOWARDS them. 
He lives in the cremation ground... the most polluted place on earth. 
He smears his body with the ashes of the pyre. 
He is not doing this to be shocking... he is doing it to break the binary of Pure and Impure.

[intense]
He believes that if God is everywhere... then God is in the shit as much as in the temple. 
To reject the filth is to reject a part of God.

The ritual of SHAVA SADHANA is the apex of this habitus. 
It is the "Corpse Meditation." 
On a new moon night... in the middle of the cremation ground... the Aghori finds a fresh corpse. 
He washes it. 
He invokes the spirit of the deceased. 
He sits on the chest of the corpse and meditates. 
He is trying to wake up the "Corpse" of his own consciousness. 
He is confronting the ultimate reality of his own mortality.

[laughs]
The Aghori sits by the Ganges. 
The pyres are burning. 
The smell of burning flesh is thick in the air. 
He pays attention to the SMOKE. 
To be an Aghori is to be Post-Human. 
You have stepped out of the game of society. 
You have no caste... no family... no shame. 
You are a wild animal that has remembered it is God.

He picks up his Kapala. 
He dips it into the river. 
He drinks the water... which is full of ashes and bacteria and flowers. 
He wipes his mouth. 
He looks at the tourists on the boat... taking pictures of him with their zoom lenses. 
They see a monster. 
He sees God in drag. 
He throws a handful of ash into the air. 
"Jai Mahakal!" he shouts. 
Victory to the Great Time... the devourer of all things.
