Chapter 12... The Whaling Ship.

[exhales]
The Whaler pays attention to the TRY-WORKS. 
It is a factory built on a wooden deck. 
Two massive cast-iron pots are set into a brick furnace. 
The fire is fueled by the whale itself... the "fritters" of boiled blubber are thrown into the flames to melt the next batch. 
The smoke is black and oily... coating the sails... the rigging... and the men in a layer of grime that never washes off. 
The Whaler pays attention to the BOIL. 
If the oil gets too hot... it will catch fire... and the ship will burn to the waterline in minutes.

The Whaler pays attention to the SPERMACETI. 
This is the prize. 
It is a liquid wax found in the head of the Sperm Whale. 
It is the substance that lights the lamps of London and Paris. 
To get it... the whaler must cut a hole in the whale's head and bail the oil out with a bucket. 
It is the gold standard of illumination... harvested from the darkness of the deep.

[excited]
The Whaler exists in the realm of the NANTUCKET SLEIGHRIDE. 
When a whale is harpooned... it runs. 
It drags the small whaleboat behind it at terrifying speeds. 
The line smokes as it runs out of the tub. 
The men hold on for dear life... spraying water on the line to keep it from catching fire.

[sighs]
But the whales are disappearing. 
The "Decay" is the longer voyages... the empty oceans. 
The industry is killing itself by destroying its own raw material. 
The tension is between the Romanticism and the Butchery. 
Herman Melville wrote Moby Dick and turned whaling into a metaphysical quest. 
But the reality is a slaughterhouse.

[whispers]
The Whaler stands in the crow's nest. 
He is a hundred feet above the deck. 
He pays attention to the HORIZON. 
To be a Whaler is to be Scanning. 
He sees a spout. 
"There she blows!" 
The cry goes down to the deck. 
The ship wakes up. 
The chase begins. 
He feels the adrenaline... the ancient hunting instinct kicking in. 
But underneath it... there is a sadness. 
He knows that he is hunting a ghost. 
He knows that the age of the monster is ending... and the age of the machine is beginning.
