Chapter 13... The Plague Doctor.

[exhales]
To understand the Plague Doctor... you must first understand the BEAK. 
It is not a mask; it is a gas mask. 
The doctor believes that the plague is spread by "miasma"... bad air. 
To breathe the air of the sickroom is to die. 
So he wears a leather mask with a six-inch beak. 
Inside the beak... he stuffs a specific recipe of aromatics... dried rose petals... camphor... cloves... myrrh... and a sponge soaked in vinegar. 
He breathes through this filter. 
He is a walking potpourri in a city of rotting corpses.

[whispers]
The Doctor pays attention to the CANE. 
It is a wooden stick... often tipped with a winged hourglass. 
It is his only point of contact with the world. 
He uses it to lift the bedsheets of the dying. 
He uses it to take a pulse. 
He uses it to push away the desperate people who try to grab his robes. 
He never touches a patient with his hands.

The Plague Doctor exists in the realm of the LAZARETTO. 
This was the quarantine island of Venice. 
Ships arriving from the East were forced to dock there for forty days. 
It was a purgatory. 
The doctor patrolled the wards... checking the sailors for "buboes." 
The doctor is a figure of terror. 
When he walks down the street... people run. 
Children throw stones. 
He is a harbinger of doom.

[sighs]
The tension in the Plague Doctor's world is the Failure of Knowledge. 
The doctor knows everything about the humors. 
But he does not know what causes the plague. 
He is fighting a microscopic enemy with medieval weapons. 
He bleeds the patients... and they die faster. 
He is a high priest of a religion that has been abandoned by its god.

[whispers]
The Doctor sits in his study. 
He takes off the mask. 
He pays attention to the SILENCE. 
To be a Plague Doctor is to be Alone. 
You cannot hug your wife. 
You cannot play with your children. 
You are untouchable. 
He looks at the mask on the table. 
The glass eyes stare back at him... empty and reflective. 
He wonders if he is the doctor or the disease.
