Chapter 4... The Imperial Eunuch.

[whispers]
The BAO... "The Treasure"... is a small jar... often made of pottery or glass... sealed with red paper and wax. 
Inside... floating in alcohol or vinegar... are the preserved genitals of the eunuch himself. 
This jar is not a macabre souvenir... it is his passport. 
When a eunuch sought promotion within the Forbidden City... the first thing the Chief Eunuch asked was... "Do you have your Treasure?" 
Without it... he was nothing.

[exhales]
And more importantly... when he died... the Treasure had to be buried with him. 
If he went to the grave incomplete... legend said he would be reincarnated as a female mule. 
He spent his entire life guarding the very thing he had paid to lose.

The Eunuch pays attention to the ABSENCE. 
He is defined by what he does not have. 
This lack creates a somatic vacuum that he fills with POWER. 
He is the "Third Sex"... a being who operates outside the binary of male and female. 
Because he cannot produce a biological dynasty... he is trusted to manage the Imperial one.

[whispers]
He pays attention to the WHISPER. 
In the Forbidden City... information is more valuable than gold. 
He knows who the Emperor slept with last night... which concubine is pregnant... and which minister is out of favor. 
He is a living surveillance state.

The genealogy is one of Mutilation as Investment. 
In a society of extreme poverty... castration was a lottery ticket. 
A poor family would castrate their son in the hope that he would enter the palace and send money home. 
It was a brutal economic calculation... trade the reproductive future for a caloric present.

[sighs]
The Eunuch stands on the steps of the Hall of Supreme Harmony. 
It is dawn. 
He holds the fly-whisk. 
He pays attention to the SILENCE. 
To be a Eunuch is to be Alone in the Crowd. 
You are surrounded by thousands of people... but you are a species of one. 
He touches the spot where his Treasure used to be. 
He feels the phantom pain. 
It is a dull ache that never goes away. 
He looks at the Emperor... a lonely boy on a golden chair. 
He feels a strange pity. 
They are both prisoners. 
One is trapped by his body... the other by his throne.
