Chapter 20... The Glassblower.

[exhales]
To understand the Glassblower... you must first understand the JACKS. 
They are large steel tweezers... blackened by fire. 
The Glassblower pays attention to the HEAT. 
He does not touch the glass; he touches the heat. 
He holds the jacks against the spinning bubble of molten silica. 
If the glass is too hot... it collapses like honey. 
If it is too cold... it shatters. 
He is working in a window of temperature that lasts for thirty seconds. 
He is a sculptor of time.

[whispers]
The Glassblower pays attention to the PUCELLAS. 
These are the "jacks" with wooden blades. 
They are soaked in water. 
When he touches them to the glass... steam hisses. 
He is constantly fighting gravity. 
The glass wants to drip onto the floor. 
He must keep the pipe spinning... 60 revolutions per minute... to keep the centrifugal force balanced against the pull of the earth.

The Glassblower exists in the realm of the GATHER. 
This is the act of dipping the blowpipe into the furnace to pick up a blob of molten glass. 
The furnace is a roaring beast kept at 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit. 
It never turns off. 
The Glassblower is a servant of the fire. 
He is dehydrated. 
He has scars on his arms from "kisses"... burns. 
He is a dancer partnering with a partner that will kill him if he misses a step.

[sighs]
But worlds... like stars... are subject to decay. 
The tension in the Glassblower's world is the ENERGY COST. 
Glassblowing is an ecological disaster. 
The furnaces burn massive amounts of natural gas. 
The "Decay" is the bill. 
As energy prices rise... studios are closing. 
The Glassblower needs to charge $200 just to cover the gas bill. 
He cannot compete on price. 
He must compete on "Soul."

[exhales]
The Glassblower sits on his bench. 
The piece is finished. 
He pays attention to the CRACK. 
To be a Glassblower is to be Detached. 
You break 30% of what you make. 
He taps the pipe. 
Tink. 
The platter breaks free. 
The Glassblower wipes the sweat from his eyes. 
He drinks a liter of water. 
He looks at the empty pipe. 
He is exhausted... burned... and broke. 
But he knows that tomorrow... he will open the oven door... and if the gods of silica are kind... he will hold a piece of frozen light in his hands.
