Chapter 10... The Ancient Scribe.

[exhales]
The CLAY is not just mud; it is a technology of memory. 
The scribe pays attention to the LEVIGATION. 
He takes the raw clay from the riverbank... mixes it with water... and lets it settle. 
The heavy sand sinks; the organic matter floats. 
What remains in the middle is the pure... fine particulate clay. 
This is the only material smooth enough to take the impression of the stylus without cracking. 
He is an engineer of earth.

[whispers]
The Scribe pays attention to the WEDGE. 
He holds a stylus made of giant reed. 
It is not a pen; it does not flow. 
It is a stamp. 
He presses the corner of the reed into the wet clay to make a triangular mark. 
This is CUNEIFORM. 
It is a three-dimensional script. 
The meaning changes depending on the angle of the light. 
He does not write; he excavates meaning from the mud.

The Scribe exists in the realm of the LIST. 
The Mesopotamians were obsessed with lists. 
They made lists of birds... lists of stars... lists of gods. 
They believed that if you could list everything in the universe... you could control it.

[sighs]
But worlds... like stars... are subject to decay. 
The tension in the Scribe's world is the Fragility of the Medium. 
Clay is heavy. 
It breaks. 
But paradoxically... it is indestructible when baked. 
When the armies of Babylon sacked Nineveh... they burned the palace. 
They thought they were destroying the library. 
In fact... they were preserving it. 
The fire baked the clay tablets into ceramic... making them hard as stone.

[whispers]
The Scribe sits in the courtyard. 
His hands are covered in gray mud. 
He pays attention to the SUN. 
To be a Scribe is to be Permanent. 
You are writing for the future. 
You are writing for people who will not be born for five thousand years. 
He picks up a fresh tablet. 
It is cool and damp. 
He presses the reed into the surface. 
The wedges cast tiny shadows in the afternoon light. 
He knows that his city will fall. 
He knows that his king will die. 
But he knows that this piece of dried mud will outlast them all. 
He has defeated time with a handful of earth.
